Migrate on-premise VMs to Google Cloud - Compute engine

Cloud BigTable - consistent high-speed (sub-10ms latency), millions of request/sec

Cloud Spanner - global, handled consistently, unlimited growth

Dataflow - handles building data pipelines
	 - Managed service
	      scales with amount of data to be processed
              based on Apache Beam

IAM - can report on and maintain compliance on your entire Google Cloud Org

Google Cloud Armor security policies enable you to allow or deny access 
to your external HTTP(S) load balancer at the Google Cloud edge, 
as close as possible to the source of incoming traffic. 
This prevents unwelcome traffic from consuming resources or entering 
your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) networks.


Security Command Center -Protect your production apps (at run time) from denial of service and common web attacks
(OWASP Top 10) like XSS (cross-site scripting) and SQL injection

Cloud Data Loss Prevention - Discover, classify, & mask sensitive data (like Credit Card numbers, SSNs, clear text
passwords & Google Cloud credentials) Integrates with Cloud Storage, BigQuery, and Datastore
Provides APIs that can be invoked from your applications

Secret Manager - Manage your database passwords, your API keys securely

KMS Create and manage cryptographic keys (symmetric and asymmetric). 
Control their use in your applications and GCP Services

Security Command Center - Security and risk management platform for Google Cloud.
-  Gain centralized visibility and control
-  Detect threats targeting your Google Cloud assets
    Uncover threats targeting your resources using logs and powered by Google’s unique threat intelligence; use kernel-level instrumentation to identify potential compromises of containers.
-  Fix misconfigurations and compliance violations
    Identify security misconfigurations and compliance violations in your Google Cloud assets and resolve them by following actionable recommendations.

Distributed app - redundancy, fas comm (< 10ms) between diff machines
   Solution:  multiple regions, multiple zones per region

Migrate for Anthos migrates to containers, and Migrate for Compute Engine migrates to VMs


Cloud Code, Cloud Build, Cloud Monitoring & Cloud Logging Integrations
Cloud Scheduler - NO CLOUD SCHEDULER
Cloud Code -  REPO
Cloud Build - BUILD AND DEPLOY
Cloud Deployment Manager - NO CLOUD DEVELOPMENT MANAGER

MAINTAIN CUSTOM IMAGES - COMPUTE ENGINE

PROD ENV in COMPUTE ENGINE in TWO REGIONS
  CREATE 2 PROJECTS FOR PROD (ONE FOR EACH REGION)

SECURITY COMMAND CENTER - Asset Discovery and inventory
  			- Threat Prevention
			- Threat detection
			
Segment Cloud Resources by Team - One Project by Team

All work on private hypervisor, want to move to cloud quick with min cost and max google services
Migrate workloads to Google Compute Engine (GCE)

Scales to zero - App Engine Scales to Zero Instances (Standard but not FLEXIBLE)
	- Cloud Function scales to Zero (by definition)

Cloud Function  - notify users when something happens
		- performance DB sanitation and maint
		- execute intensive tasks in cloud instead of app
		- integrate with 3rd party services and APIs


Cloud Interconnect ->Cloud Interconnect extends your on-premises network to Google's network 
  through a highly available, low latency connection. 
You can use Dedicated Interconnect to connect directly to Google 
or use Partner Interconnect to connect to Google through a supported service provider.
https://cloud.google.com/network-connectivity/docs/interconnect

Direct Peering (edge)-  enables you to establish a direct peering connection b/t
your business network and Google's edge network and exchange high-throughput cloud traffic. 
This capability is available at any of more than 100 locations in 33 countries 
around the world.

Cloud VPN - Cloud VPN securely connects your peer network to your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) 
network through an IPsec VPN connection. Traffic traveling between the two networks 
is encrypted by one VPN gateway and then decrypted by the other VPN gateway. 
This action protects your data as it travels over the internet. 
You can also connect two instances of Cloud VPN to each other.

CloudRun - Serverless - What is a Google Cloud Run?
Cloud Run is a managed compute platform that enables you to run containers 
that are invocable via requests or events. Cloud Run is serverless


Storage Transfer Service

Migrate for Anthos

BigQuery Data Transfer Service

Transfer applicane - like snowcone, snowball, snowmobile

***International standards for data security and privacy, supercede regional regulalations

BigQuery ML - Learning models using Standard SQL and DW solutions

***Org needs to ensure each depart segregated from each other
Each dept has several environements: Dev, TEST, PROD 
Best Strategy:  Create Cloud Identity domain per environment, and create project per dept in each domain

cloud.google.com/billing/docs/concepts
Create billing account per project and link ech project to diff billing account
NO turn on committed use discount sharing, create commitment for contained usage

SUPPORT:
Premium Support - NOT A SUPPORT LEVEL
Enhanced support 24 x7  coverage and most responsive
Standard Support - NOT A SUPPORT LEVEL
Basic Support - coverage and response for SOME customers
SecureAuth protects critical apps meaning delays and extended downtime not an option

Org process large amounts of data from online app that operates continuously
Do not want ot provision infra or create clusters
 -ComputeEngine with managed BigQuery

Dataproc - Serverless?
Dataflow - Serverless?
Dataproc is a Google Cloud product with Data Science/ML service for Spark and Hadoop. 
In comparison, Dataflow follows a batch and stream processing of data. 

process large amounts of Data continously.   BigQuery - cloud IOS

Want to be sure expenditures on clous service inline with budget
  Resource labels -helps monitor so we can prevent overspending
  payments profile - prevents overspending

Messed up Committed Use Discount Purchase - Contact Trust and Security

Cloud Spanner - dynamically Scale up/down transactional SQL
VS
BigQuery is a fully-managed, serverless data warehouse that enables scalable analysis 
over petabytes of data. It is a Platform as a Service that supports querying using 
ANSI SQL. It also has built-in machine learning capabilities.

Cloud BigTable -Cloud Bigtable is a fully managed wide-column 
and key-value NoSQL database service for large analytical and operational workloads 
as part of the Google Cloud portfolio.



Partner Interconnect
     senstive data cannot be send over internet, processd in both locations

vs Cloud VPN

Tracking Google Cloud speding needs to stay as simple as possie
Want to isolate workloads in dev from prod:
   Put dev resources in their own project


many teams, many projects, simply management of identity and access policies
--Use folders to group each teams projects

Host data on-prem, and set up Cloud Interconnect connection
no charge for download of data.


Configure single sign-on on Google domain prevents access from Google AD account or "terminates" it in Google

Org needs to analyze data to gather insights, only want to pay for stroage and queries
   Which data analytics warehouse?
      CloudSQL object storage
      Dataproc - no
      CloudSpanner - no
      BigQuery - no

BEST PRACTICE:   Define your resource hierarchy with an organization node on top

Minimize latency, securely access large volume of On-premise data - VPC between onprem and google resource

Create a Cloud Identity domain per environment, and create a project per department in each domain


https://cloud.google.com/compute/all-pricing
200 CPU constant for 3 years, then spikes to 300 1/3 of time - Pay as you go


BigQuery is a fully-managed, serverless data warehouse that enables scalable analysis 
over petabytes of data. It is a Platform as a Service that supports querying using 
ANSI SQL. It also has built-in machine learning capabilities

https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-policy/overview

Cloud Scheduler is a fully managed enterprise-grade cron job scheduler. 
It allows you to schedule virtually any job, including batch, big data jobs.

What is BigQuery data Transfer?
The BigQuery Data Transfer Service automates data movement into BigQuery on a scheduled,
 managed basis. The BigQuery Data Transfer Service facilitates transfers from many data 
sources, including data warehouses. Transfers can be recurring or occur once.


Cloud Composer is a fully managed data workflow orchestration service that empowers you 
to author, schedule, and monitor pipelines.
 
Database Migration Service makes it easier for you to migrate your data to Google Cloud. 
This service helps you lift and shift your MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server workloads 
into Cloud SQL. In addition, you can lift and modernize your Oracle workloads 
into Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL.

Data Catalog is a fully managed, scalable metadata management service in Google Cloud's Data Analytics family of products.
-Searching for insightful data:
-Understanding data
-Making data useful:

Dataprep by Trifacta is an intelligent data service for visually exploring, cleaning, and preparing structured and unstructured data for analysis, reporting, 
and machine learning.

Cloud Function scales to Zero (by definition)

Cloud Data Fusion by Google Cloud is the brand new, fully-managed data engineering product 
within Google Cloud Platform. It will help users to efficiently 
build and manage ETL/ELT data pipelines.

Financial governance refers to the way a company collects, manages, monitors 
and controls financial information. Financial governance includes how companies track financial transactions, manage performance and control data, compliance, operations, and disclosures.

Migrate workloads to Compute engine.  minimal changes, using max amount of managed services

Put development resources with their own project

Compute Engine can be used to migrate VMs

Looker is an enterprise platform for business intelligence, data applications, and embedded analytics. Looker helps you explore, share, and visualize your company's data 
so that you can make better business decisions.

Recommendations AI delivers highly personalized product recommendations at scale

Document AI uses aI to unlock insights from documents

Cloud Talent Solution uses AI with job search and talent acquisition capabilities

AI Hub is a hosted repo of plug and play AI Components


Cloud Profiler is a continuous profiling tool that is designed for applications running on Google Cloud:
    It's a statistical, or sampling, profiler that has low overhead 
    and is suitable for production environments.
Profiling is a form of dynamic code analysis. 
You capture characteristics of the application as it runs, 
and then you use this information to identify how to make your application faster 
and more efficient.
Historically, profiling was performed only during application development. 
This approach relied on the ability to develop load tests and benchmarks 
that could accurately predict a production environment.
Continuous profiling refers to profiling the application while it executes 
in a production environment. This approach alleviates the need to develop 
accurate predictive load tests and benchmarks for the production environment. 
Research on continuous profiling has shown it is accurate and cost effective*.

Cloud Debugger is a feature of Google Cloud that lets you inspect the state of a running application in real time, 
without stopping or slowing it down.

Cloud Trace is a distributed tracing system that collects latency data 
from your applications and displays it in the Google Cloud Console. 

Cloud Monitoring offers automatic out-of-the-box metric collection dashboards 
for Google Cloud services. It also supports monitoring of hybrid and multicloud env 

TensorFlow is a free and open-source software library for machine learning 
and artificial intelligence. It can be used across a range of tasks 
but has a particular focus on training and inference of deep neural networks. 

AutoML enables developers with limited machine learning expertise to train high-quality models specific to their business needs. 

Use Dataproc for data lake modernization, ETL, and secure data science, at planet scale, 
fully integrated with Google Cloud, at a fraction of the cost.

BigQuery is a fully-managed, serverless data warehouse that enables scalable analysis 
over petabytes of data. It is a Platform as a Service that supports querying using 
ANSI SQL. It also has built-in machine learning capabilities
Operating continuously, Large Amounts of data

DataFlow - Pipelines. Google Cloud Dataflow is a fully managed service 
for executing Apache Beam pipelines within the Google Cloud Platform ecosystem.

Secret Manager is a secure and convenient storage system for API keys, passwords, certificates, and other sensitive data. 


Google Cloud Storage is a RESTful online file storage web service for storing and accessing data on Google Cloud Platform infrastructure.

BeyondCorp is an implementation, by Google, of zero-trust computer security concepts creating a zero trust network.

Google Private Access no external IPs
 Connect to Google APIs and services using an endpoint in your VPC network. 
   Google Cloud and on-premises resources don't need an external IP addresses.
 Connect to regional Google APIs and services using an internal HTTP(S) load balancer 
   in your VPC network. Google Cloud and on-premises resources don't need an external 
   IP addresses.
 Use this option to connect to Google APIs and services without giving your Google Cloud 
   resources external IP addresses.

